# Air_Quality_Index(AQI)_Predicton_Model

With the continuous improvement of residents' personal living standards, people's requirements for the environment are increasing from a personal perspective, and green and sustainable development is the long-term solution from the national level. The existing national air quality testing stations are located all over the country. By building AQI prediction models with high accuracy and stability based on air quality information released from these stations, we can better focus on issues related to air quality. Every national government, any meteorologist and any user interested in air quality can use this AQI prediction model to optimize their decisions. In this regard, this paper constructs several models to study the air quality predictions and compare their accuracy. The main work includes：
1) Implementing a feature selection step to find out which variables are the main contributors to the AQI categories.
2) After the process of feature selection, the dataset is divided into a training set and a test set, and the importance of the variables generated by BorutaPy is obtained and modeled from the top variables to the remaining variables to see which ones yield the highest accuracy.
3) Modelling using Classification and Regression Trees (CART), Random Forest, XGBoost, LightGBM, and Naive Bayes respectively. The test set will be used to compare the predicted values with each model and to record the accuracy of each model and each variable. Accuracy results are compared to see which model uses the least number of variables to achieve the highest accuracy in the project.
4) Using Flask to deploy the data product by visualizing the data and prediction results using multiple forms of charts, and by performing model explanations.

In conclusion, we hope that this data product can help the government implement efficient policies to minimize the impact caused by air pollution and the public can be informed with the latest news on air pollution to take appropriate actions which include reducing outdoor activity or seeking medical attention. Besides, we also hope to motivate changes in both individual behavior and public policy, which may ultimately lead to reductions in emissions of air pollutants from anthropogenic sources, and resulting improvements in public health. In the long run, this project will bring huge benefits to the whole society as prevention is always better than cure.
